---
title: "OSS Work update #4"
tags: ["Open Source Updates"]
---

I'm trying to post these roughly once a month. [Here's the September post](/blog/2019/09/06/oss-update-3/).

## Work I did (Sept 6 - Oct 5)

**Technical**

- Figured out a rough structure for approaching pip's build logic refactor.
- Discussed and sketched a rough "goal" model for pip's build logic, to adopt after initial cleanups and decoupling refactor work.
- Made significant progress on refactoring pip's metadata handling and generation logic. (yay!)
- Identified a quirk in how pip's current resolution logic, which makes it conceptually intertwined with pip's index interaction logic (*sigh*).
  - out-of-scope for the ongoing "build logic refactor", but we do need to resolve this at some point.
- Revamped pip's linting pipeline to be... simpler (i.e. better).
- Multiple miscellaneous fixes/cleanup to pip.
- A lots of PRs reviewed (>80).
- Reviewed and merged ABNF-related PRs, for TOML.
- Sunk a good day to debugging 500s on GitHub (it was due to emojis). :(

**Communication**

- Reached out to quite a few folks regarding my [semester-long internship][internship-tweet].
- Discuss goals and approaches, for pip's build logic refactor, with fellow pip maintainers across multiple issues on the issue tracker.
- Had a chat w/ a pipenv maintainer, discussing the resolver code reuse situation, and some design discussion about the ongoing build logic refactoring.
- Had multiple chats with fellow pip maintainers, discussing a rough plan and target, for the build logic refactor as well as our development workflow.
- Polished up my proposed "Status-Quo" PyPA governance model.
- Reviewed a proposal for better licensing metadata for Python Packages.

## Additional notes on challenges

I had more exams! I'd hoped to get more work done but I hadn't realize that I'd have exams over 2 weekends -- Sunday, 29 Sept to Sunday, 6 Oct.  (yay college)

In addition, I realized that my [initial approach][failed-approach] toward reworking pip's "prepare distribution" logic was fatally flawed because I forgot about a usecase. My discussions with pipenv and pip maintainers were very fruitful and we pooled our combined knowledge of the tooling into text documents and diagrams. We've come up with a more feasible (and much better) plan than the one I had come up with on my own.

Recently, I read something on discuss.python.org, that just perfectly encapsulates how I feel about this stuff:

<blockquote>
  <p>
    all of this stuff is really hard and there’s a lot of knowledge scattered around in people’s heads that could really do with being captured somewhere
  </p>
  <footer><cite title="Paul Moore">Paul Moore (regarding a different topic)</cite></footer>
</blockquote>

Overall, I made time to work on pip this month, and made significant progress on cleaning up pip's metadata generation and handling logic.

## Goals for October

**Technical**

- Wrap up refactoring metadata generation and handling in pip.
- Work on a "blessed" TOML's compliance suite, as we prepare for TOML 1.0.
- (stretch goal) Begin refactoring the next component -- installation.

**Communication**

- Update the GitHub Project board for pip's build logic refactor, based on the mental model built over the past few discussions.
- Attend PyCon India:
  - [Give a talk][pycon-india-talk] about the state of Python Packaging.
  - Run a [sprint][pycon-india-sprints] on pip, packaging and pypa-bot (and more?).
- Figure out my internship situation and getting approval from my HoD for the internship I'd be doing.

## Other commitments

I expect to have some time to work on pip in October, though not as much as September.

In mid-October, I'll be speaking at PyCon India 2019 (noted above) and I expect from today until my talk, almost all of my free time would be going towards that talk preparation. After that, I am expecting that I'll spend a few days going through the processes for approvals, at college, related to my final semester internship.

## Help us

How can you help us?

- provide test cases where the latest released version of pip (19.2.3, at the time of writing) fails to resolve dependencies properly (on [zazo's issue tracker][zazo-issues]). They will help us design and test the new resolver.
- talk with your company about becoming a PSF sponsor. The [Fundable Packaging Improvements page][fundable-projects] now summarizes what bugfixes/features/projects within and outside PyPA are blocked on the new resolver, some background context, and how funding would help us get it finished faster.
- triage pip bugs! Around 10% of pip's issues have not been triaged yet and many others need of action/review.
- help improve our ["how to triage pip bugs" guide][triage-guide].
- volunteer to [help us build robust testing infrastructure][integration-test]

[internship-tweet]: https://twitter.com/pradyunsg/status/1174186350389661696
[failed-approach]: https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/6990
[pycon-india-talk]: https://in.pycon.org/cfp/2019/proposals/python-packaging-where-we-are-and-where-were-headed~dGV8b/
[pycon-india-sprints]: https://in.pycon.org/cfp/devsprint-2019/proposals/python-packaging-pip-and-more~e35nb/
[triage-guide]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/development/issue-triage/
[zazo-issues]: https://github.com/pradyunsg/zazo/issues
[fundable-projects]: https://wiki.python.org/psf/Fundable%20Packaging%20Improvements
[integration-test]: https://github.com/pypa/integration-test/issues
