---
title: "OSS Work update #13"
tags: ["Open Source Updates"]
summary: "New hardware + more time = more stuff done!"
---

It's been a while since I posted one of these!

## Work I did

This has been a fairly productive few months, despite all the things that have
been happening outside of my open-source-related responsibilities.

### July 2021

#### Technical

- installer: 0.2.3 release!
- packaging: 21.0 release!
- sphinx-basic-ng: Alpha 6 release.
- pip: Make progress on the documentation revamp project.
- pip: Make progress on adopting black.
- Furo: More Sphinx 4 compatibility stuff.
- Furo: Refactored most of the stylesheets.
- Furo: Implemented and released dark mode toggle, which was a heavily requested
  feature.
- Furo: Improve accessibility by adding appropriate labels across the site,
  improving constrast ratios across the board and validating the keyboard-only
  navigation story.

#### Communication

- Lots of PR reviews across all of GitHub!
- Onboard a new contributor ([@DiddiLeija]) to pip.
- Collaborate on the lockfile standardisation effort (became PEP 655).
- Help with ComputeCanada's setup for providing optimised wheels to their users.
- Sphinx: experiment with improving the documentation site.

[@diddileija]: https://github.com/DiddiLeija

### August 2021

#### Technical

- Furo: First stable release!
- sphinx-inline-tabs: Release beta10!
- pip: More progress on the documentation revamp project.
- pip: Migrate automatic merge conflict label mechanisms.
- pip: Improve deprecation helpers.
- pip: Improve issue filing experience.
- Furo: Add support for sphinx-design elements.

#### Communication

- Poke at the PEP 655 discussion.
- Poke at the GPU-optimised wheels discussion.
- sphinx-design: Provide feedback on the initial iteration.
- TOML: newline normalisation discussion.
- pip: Drive discussion and resolve the black adoption story.
- Furo: user support, helping out with their usage and docs.

### Sept 2021

#### Technical

- pip: Lots of PR reviews and issue tracker trimming.
- pip: More progress on documentation revamp.
- Furo: Rework presentation of API documentation.
- Furo: General polishing, based on issues reported by users.
- installer: Work on modernising the codebase.
- installer: Land the PRs that users have filed for this.
- vendoring: Improve behaviours, for patching and import rewriting.

#### Communication

- pip: Discussion and kickoff of the effort to improve error messages.
- pip: Pick up the release manager duties for 21.3 (Oct 2021).
- installer: Communicate around the support promises for EoL Python.
- Furo: user support, helping out with their usage and docs.

[sphinx-basic-ng]: https://github.com/pradyunsg/sphinx-basic-ng/
[installer]: https://github.com/pradyunsg/installer
[sphinx-themes.org]: https://sphinx-themes.org/
[furo]: https://pradyunsg.me/furo

## General notes

I'm really excited about the progress on the pip documentation revamp. I'm
particularly happy with how the [Build System Interface] section has come
together.

[Volunteer Responsibility Amnesty Day] is on the next solstice: December
21, 2021. If you volunteer for things, consider participating and checking in
with yourself.

[build system interface]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/reference/build-system/
[volunteer responsibility amnesty day]: https://www.volunteeramnestyday.net

## What next?

- PEP 655: Help out with the rewrite.
- pip: 21.3 release!
- pip: Wind down the documentation rewrite effort.
- pip: Make progress on the diagnostic errors effort.
- installer: Make last EoL Python release.
- Sphinx: More progress on $theme-I-am-writing.
- Poke and check what's up with the Python Documentation Workgroup.

## Other commitments

A full time job that pays my bills. :)
