---
title: "OSS Work update #15"
tags: ["Open Source Updates"]
summary: "Woah, time flies!"
---

## Work I did

Things have been fairly bumpy over the last little while.

### Dec 2021

#### Technical

- sphinx-basic-ng: release alpha 8
- sphinx-theme-builder: release alpha 12
- pip: Significant usability improvements
  - Much better cleaner error presentation style, providing additional context
    in build-time error messages.
  - Abort immediately on metadata generation failure instead of backtracking.
- installer: Preserve executable bits, bringing it closer to behaving
  appropriately.
- installer: Improve the documentation.
- pip: Start rewriting the build isolation logic.
- oldest-supported-numpy: Improve testing setup for dependency declarations.
- pydata-sphinx-theme: Rework the theme's build system, to use
  `sphinx-theme-builder`.
- pyproject-hooks: Create and scaffold the project, as a migration path for
  `pep517`.
- Started working on a tool to make writing these easier for me.

#### Communication

- Initiated the conversation for starting the Python packaging summit at PyCon.
- Nudged Discourse
  [to enable the footnotes plugin on all hosted instances](https://meta.discourse.org/t/move-footnotes-to-a-standard-plugin/210112).
- Reworked PyPI support's limit request templates.
- Became a maintainer on [Flit](https://github.com/pypa/flit).

### Jan 2022

#### Technical

- pip: Release 22.0.
- Furo: Immaculate Indigo release.
- sphinx-inline-tabs: Release beta 11.
- sphinx-basic-ng: Release alpha 9.
- sphinx-theme-builder: Release alpha 13.
- pip: Significantly improve how errors in subprocesses are presented.
- Sphinx: change "permalink to this headline" to "permalink to this heading".
- pydata-sphinx-theme: Improve presentation and styling of the scaffolding.

#### Communication

- Release management and change management for pip 22.0.
- Discussion with the Packaging Project manager about rolling out changes.
- Moving externally managed environments PEP forward.

### Feb 2022

#### Technical

- ✨ Furo: Jazzy Jasmine and Keen Kobi releases, with major improvements.
- pip: Release 22.0 bugfixes.
- installer: Release 0.5.0
- pip: Make more improvements to pip's documentation.
- pip: Get the fix for Windows upgrade protection logic landed.
- sphinx-themes.org: Rework the "Kitchen Sink".

#### Communication

- Poke at PEP 668, to check that there's still interest.
- Get the ball rolling for the Packaging Summit at PyCon US 2022.
- Move `installer` into the PyPA umbrella.

### Mar 2022

#### Technical

- sphinx-theme-builder: Release alpha 14.
- installer: Release 0.5.1.
- Python: Upgrade the pip version that's bundled with latest bugfix releases-
- Lutra: Publicly release the source code under MIT.
- pip: Explore changing wheel installation logic to use `installer`.
- pip: Explore changing pyproject.toml build system to use `build`.
- pip: Make progress on the broader build logic refactor.
- pip: Make more improvements to pip's documentation.
- pip: Improve the pip upgrade prompt presentation.
- dotfiles: Completely rework my dotfiles setup, allowing "merging" multiple
  repositories.

#### Communication

- Update the PyPA recommendations around pipenv, to better reflect the current
  state of the project.
- Make a public proposal about adopting the concept of "Teams" (from PEP 8015).
- Ask publicly about blockers for dropping pip's legacy resolver.

## What next?

There's PyCon US close to the end of the month! That's the first in-person event
that I've bought tickets for since 2020!

There's going to be a Python Packaging Summit, at PyCon US this year -- I'm one
of the organisers. I am also going to be at the event for sprints.

## Other commitments

A full time job that pays my bills. :)
