---
title: "OSS Work update #16"
tags: ["Open Source Updates"]
summary: "April was a somewhat relaxed month."
---

## Work I did (April 2022)

### Technical

- Release pip 22.1.b1
- Release Furo 2022.04.07
- Release release-helper 1.0.0
- Improve the presentation of upgrade prompts from pip.
- Some exploratory work for how much effort it would be, to remove
  `setup.py install` calls from pip's codebase.
- Some exploratory work for adding a "Track: Packaging" to Python PEPs.
- Some exploratory work for automating adding maintainers/committers to PyPA,
  with the information being stored in a Git repository with history.
- Did an "open source responsibility audit", to check what I've committed to
  responsibility for and for what things I should step down.

### Communication

- PyCon US Packaging Summit planning.
- Poke a few more people about PEP 668 (externally managed environments).
- Started writing a PEP for "default" extras (i.e. optional dependencies that
  get installed by default).
- Interviewed as part of a post about
  [Package Managers](https://builtin.com/software-engineering-perspectives/package-managers)

## General notes

My plans for attending PyCon US changed very close to the event date, since
PyCon announced that there will be [a co-located event does not have any
published masking or vaccination requirements][pycon-colocated-post]. I'm pretty
bummed out about that. Thankfully, everyone involved in the trip
planning/booking has been understanding.

PyCon US is wrapping up, as I write this. I imagine there's gonna be a bunch of
folks with a bunch of energy contributing to various projects, something I look
forward to!

[pycon-colocated-post]:
  https://pycon.blogspot.com/2022/04/important-venue-information-update.html
