# OSS Work update -- 6 Sept 2019

I'm trying to post these roughly once a month. [Here's the August post](/blog/2019/08/06/pip-update-2/) which includes the work I was planning to do this month.

## Work I did (Aug 6 - Sept 5)

**Technical**

- Began working on splitting the code for handling of the two kinds of source distributions.
- Wrap up pip 19.2, with [pip 19.2.3 release](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/6630), unblocking Python 3.8's final beta. Hooray!
- Fix documentation builds for pip, [on ReadTheDocs](https://pip.pypa.io/) -- this took way longer to figure out than I'd expected.
- Multiple miscellaneous fixes that I could do in gaps between classes.
- Lots of PRs reviewed (30+)

In August, I wanted to get further on separating "prepare distribution" logic from the resolution logic and on turning distribution-type-specific build code into dedicated modules within the new "distributions" sub-package in pip. I didn't get there.

**Communication**

- Gave a keynote at PyCon Korea! (no video links yet -- will probably be [here](https://pyvideo.org/events/pycon-korea-2019.html))
- The details and requirements for my final semester internship have been clarified.
- OKed the MOSS funding proposal
- Contributed to [several discussions](https://discuss.python.org/u/pradyunsg/activity) on the Python discussion forum, including on better licensing metadata and PyPA governance.

During this [month](https://github.com/pradyunsg?tab=overview&from=2019-07-01&to=2019-07-31), I also proposed an improvement to `twine check` (motivated by confusing output when making a pip release), made some more progress toward TOML 1.0, and worked on some of my personal tooling which broke due to a VS Code update. :)

## Additional notes on challenges

Lack of time. Outside of my talk at PyCon Korea and mid-semester examinations at college, I could not find much time to work on the goals I had set for myself.
In the time that I could make, the urgency of the pip release, broken documentation build, and code review left very little time for me to make progress on foundational improvements to pip's codebase.

## Goals for September

**Technical**

- Wrap up the goals I'd set for August:
  - Finish splitting logic for handling on source distributions in the new "distributions" sub-package in pip.
  - Separate "prepare distribution" logic from the resolution logic.
- Develop a clearer mental model for pip's handling of distribution metadata.
- Investigate how to adapt pip's distribution preparation logic to provide distribution metadata as an independent object.

**Communication**

- (rolled over from August) Reach out to maintainers of pipenv, pip-tools and poetry, to have a conversation about code reuse.
- Break down tasks, and discuss the priorities for future items for work in pip's build logic refactor.

## Other commitments

I expect to have more time to work on pip in September. There will be less academic workload (read: no exams) and I'm not travelling this month. In mid-October, I'll be speaking at PyCon India 2019 [(yay!)](https://in.pycon.org/cfp/2019/proposals/python-packaging-where-we-are-and-where-were-headed~dGV8b/) on the state of Python packaging, so I'll also be working on that talk this month.

## Help us

I’m currently looking for 20+ week internships, for my final semester credits in college, starting in December 2019 or early January 2020. If you reckon I’d be a good addition to your team, please reach out.

And if you are reviewing funding requests for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative or for Mozilla's Open Source Support program, I hope you'll approve our proposals. :)

Also, if you care about how Python Packaging is governed, please respond to my [PyPA governance proposal](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypa-governance-a-status-quo-model/2221).

Other than that, I have [the same list as in June](https://pradyunsg.me/blog/2019/06/23/pip-update/#help-us). Thanks!

Also, thanks to Sumana Harihareswara for help in editing.
