# OSS Work update #6

I'm trying to post these roughly once a month. [Here's the November post](/blog/2019/11/06/oss-update-5/).

This update has been a little late, since I have been traveling and recovering from an illness.

I also have good news: I will be working on open source projects related to Python Packaging (full time) starting early Dec 2019 till May/Jun 2020.

## Work I did (Nov 6 - Dec 10)

### Technical

- Worked to separate pip's dependency vendoring logic from rest of pip
  - This would enable other projects that use similar mechanisms (eg. pipenv)
- Made some progress for preparing for TOML's 1.0 release

### Communication

- Finalized my internship, and got the necessary approvals at college
- PyConf Hyderabad 2019! (yay!)
  - I gave a talk: Rethinking Python Packaging -- a thought experiment.
  - I ran a sprint! ~5 new contributors worked on pip!
- Initiated a [discussion for Python Packaging [at PyCon US][discourse-2603] and [in GSoC 2020][discourse-2830].

[discourse-2603]: https://discuss.python.org/t/2603
[discourse-2830]: https://discuss.python.org/t/2830

## Additional notes on challenges

As I'd anticipated, November has been low productivity. I didn't have much time to put toward working on "Open Source stuff", due to various other commitments -- broadly: exam preparation, attending a family wedding and talk preparation for PyConf Hyderabad.

## Goals for December

### Technical

- Finish decoupling pip's dependency vendoring logic to a dedicated tool
- Resume work on pip's build logic refactor
  - Shout out to Chris Hunt ([@chrahunt](github.com/chrahunt/)) for keeping
    things moving while I was away.
- Check for pip 20.0 preparedness (due Jan 2020)
- Do issue triage on pip's issue tracker
- (stretch goal) Look into further reducing fragile manual steps in pip's release process

### Communication

- Catch up on November's discussions
- Propose a talk at PyCon US 2020
- Make progress on discussions related to PyCon US and GSoC 2020
- Identify areas which (in my opinion) would be of interest in pip's UX review

## Other commitments

There is likely some travel in late December and early January, with family. And that's about it in terms of planned commitments.

## Help us

How can you help us?

- talk with your company about becoming a PSF sponsor. The [Fundable Packaging Improvements page][fundable-projects] lists fairly well-scoped projects that would happen much faster if we get funding to achieve them.
- volunteer to [help us build robust testing infrastructure][integration-test]
- provide test cases where the latest released version of pip (19.3.1, at the time of writing) fails to resolve dependencies properly (on [zazo's issue tracker][zazo-issues]). They will help us design and test the new resolver.
- help [triage pip's issue tracker][triage-guide]!

[zazo-issues]: https://github.com/pradyunsg/zazo/issues
[fundable-projects]: https://wiki.python.org/psf/Fundable%20Packaging%20Improvements
[triage-guide]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/development/issue-triage/
[integration-test]: https://github.com/pypa/integration-test/issues
