# OSS Work update -- 6 Nov 2019

I'm trying to post these roughly once a month.

[Here's the last update, from October 2019](/blog/2019/10/06/oss-update-4/).

## Work I did (Oct 6 - Nov 5)

**Technical**

- Wrapped up refactoring metadata generation within pip. (yay!)
- Started refactoring wheel building logic within pip.
- A few minor fixes/cleanup within pip.
- Helped out with pip 19.3's release.
- Significantly simplified pip's release processes.
- Reviewed >50 PRs.
- Fixed a "major" regression in pip's detection of virtual environments.
- Got some work done, progressing closer to TOML 1.0.0.

**Communication**

- Summarized the progress on the build logic refactoring.
- PyCon India 2019! (yay!)
  - I gave a talk!
  - I ran a sprint! ~20 contributors and just me as a mentor. (This was fun!)
- Figured out a lot of the details around my semster-long internship.
- Had a chat with b.p.o. maintainers, and published a [blog post][bpo-post] describing their plans going forward.
- My proposed governance model for PyPA, is [becoming a PEP][pypa-gov-pep-pr].

[bpo-post]: https://pradyunsg.me/blog/2019/11/02/state-of-bpo/
[pypa-gov-pep-pr]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/1221/

## Additional notes on challenges

Oh boi, pip's test suite doesn't like venv. The initial draft for
[this commit message][7155-message] was about 4x as long, and a lot less...
nice. I sunk quite a few hours across two days, into that one commit, trying
to make things work before realizing that it'd be better to tackle fixing
the test isolation separately.

[7155-message]: https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7155/commits/8981895b5e34de1be2a73e5fff77879c45908700

A *lot* of my time over the last two weeks has gone into handling a big mess,
in my hostel room caused by fungi. Even though I didn't cause this mess, I
have to deal with it (allergic bronchitis isn't making it easier).

Other than that though, I think everything when as I had anticipated. During
PyCon India + Diwali, I made the exact amount of progress on the "code"
problems as I'd expected -- None. Back in college, there was enough academic
workload to drain me by the end of the day. :)

Basically, I think almost all of my "write code", happened on 2 or 3 days total, in this past month.

## Goals for November

**Technical**

- Figure out a plan for refactoring pip's wheel building logic.
- Make more progress on the TOML's compliance suite.

**Communication**

- Wrap up final-semester internship search.
- (stretch) Write a blog post using all the material that was trimmed out of my PyCon India talk -- "A checkin on Python Packaging".

## Other commitments

I have my end-sem examinations  all of November (there's one tomorrow).

Overall, November is gonna be fairly "low" productivity. Hopefully, I would be able to make some progress in early December (I'll be back home!).

## Help us

How can you help us?

- talk with your company about becoming a PSF sponsor. The [Fundable Packaging Improvements page][fundable-projects] now summarizes what bugfixes/features/projects within and outside PyPA are blocked on the new resolver, some background context, and how funding would help us get it finished faster.
- provide test cases where the latest released version of pip (19.2.3, at the time of writing) fails to resolve dependencies properly (on [zazo's issue tracker][zazo-issues]). They will help us design and test the new resolver.
- volunteer to [help us build robust testing infrastructure][integration-test]
- triage pip bugs! Around 10% of pip's issues have not been triaged yet and many others need of action/review.

[zazo-issues]: https://github.com/pradyunsg/zazo/issues
[fundable-projects]: https://wiki.python.org/psf/Fundable%20Packaging%20Improvements
[triage-guide]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/development/issue-triage/
[integration-test]: https://github.com/pypa/integration-test/issues
