# OSS Work update #7

I'm trying to post these roughly once a month. [Here's the January post](/blog/2020/01/10/oss-update-7/).

I am working on open source projects, as part of an internship at [FOSSEE](https://fossee.in/) and as a part of [grant-funded work on pip's dependency resolver](https://wiki.python.org/psf/Pip2020DonorFundedRoadmap).

## Work I did (Jan 6 - Feb 5)

### Technical

- Co-worked with another developer, in person, for 1 week, on pip!
- Triaged pip's issue tracker (a lot).
- Spend some time improving pip's test suite infrastructure.
- Investigated Python 2 usage, to identify anomalies.
- Helped with virtualenv 20.0 release (kinda!).
- Invested effort to improve pip's test suite
- Helped aggregate test cases for pip's next generation resolver.

### Communication

- Managed the pip 20.0 release fiasco.
- Helped the UX folks get started with working on pip.

## Additional notes on challenges

January has been a very productive month.

Most of the challenges have been the logistics around work, not the work as
such.

My health has been pretty good and there's a certain flow to my work that I'm
enjoying now. Turns out, if you like what you're doing, you tend to be pretty
productive! :)

As long as I remember to push my blog posts to the repository, they'll actually
go live on the day they're supposed to.

## Goals for February 2020

### Technical

- Internal Cleansing: AKA Technical debt down payment.
- Issue triage: Triage a fair number of issues on pip's issue tracker.
- Technical Documentation: improving pip's technical documentation, for contributors and developers

### Communication

- Help all the other contractors to get up to "full speed" for working on pip
- Get PyPA to participate in GSoC 2020
- Python Packaging Summit at PyCon US 2020: help organization.
- Move forward on Python Packaging Governance

## Other commitments

None.

## Help us

How can you help us?

- provide test cases where the latest released version of pip (19.3.1, at the time of writing) fails to resolve dependencies properly (on [zazo's issue tracker][zazo-issues]). They will help us design and test the new resolver.
- talk with your company about becoming a PSF sponsor. The [Fundable Packaging Improvements page][fundable-projects] lists fairly well-scoped projects that would happen much faster if we get funding to achieve them.
- Have an [interview with our UX expert](https://python.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/218659-pip-development/topic/Talk.20to.20Bernard!), who is working to improve usability of Python Packaging tooling.

[zazo-issues]: https://github.com/pradyunsg/zazo/issues
[fundable-projects]: https://wiki.python.org/psf/Fundable%20Packaging%20Improvements
[triage-guide]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/development/issue-triage/
[integration-test]: https://github.com/pypa/integration-test/issues
